Certificate Revocation (#56)
thomas-fossati/draft-tls13-iot: draft-ietf-uta-tls13-iot-profile.md

has been reinforced and the work on standardizing a secure and
interoperable firmware update mechanism has made substantial progress,
see {{?RFC9019}}. RFC 7925 recommends to use a software / firmware update
mechanism to provision devices with new trust anchors. This approach only addresses the distribution of trust anchors and not end-entity certificates or certificates of subordinate CAs.

The use of device management protocols for IoT devices, which often include
an onboarding or bootstrapping mechanism, has also seen considerable uptake
in deployed devices. These protocols, some of which are standardized,
allow for the distribution and updating of certificates on demand. This enables a
deployment model where IoT device utilize end-entity certificates with
shorter lifetime making certificate revocation protocols, like OCSP
and CRLs, less relevant. Whenever certificates are updated the TLS stack
needs to be informed since the communication endpoints need to be aware
of the new certificates. This is particularly important when long-lived
TLS connections are used. In such a case, the a post-handshake

> authentication exchange needs to be triggered. TLS 1.3 provides

Author: ```suggestion
authentication exchange is triggered when the application requires it. TLS 1.3 provides
```

mechanism to provision devices with new trust anchors. This approach does,
however, only address the distribution of trust anchors and not end-entity
certificates or certificates of subordinate CAs.

The use of device management protocols for IoT devices, which often include
an onboarding or bootstrapping mechanism, has also seen considerable uptake
in deployed devices and these protocols, some of which are standardized,
allow distribution and updates of certificates on demand. This enables a
deployment model where IoT device utilize end-entity certificates with
shorter lifetime making certificate revocation protocols, like OCSP
and CRLs, less relevant. Whenever certificates are updated the TLS stack
needs to be informed since the communication endpoints need to be aware
of the new certificates. This is particularly important when long-lived
TLS connections are used. In such a case, the a post-handshake
authentication exchange needs to be triggered. TLS 1.3 provides
client-to-server post-handshake authentication only. Mutual
authentication via post-handshake messages is available via the "Exported
Authenticator" {{?RFC9261}} but requires the application layer protocol

> to carry the payloads.

Reviewer: Is this a SHOULD or a MAY?

> and CRLs, less relevant. Whenever certificates are updated the TLS stack
> needs to be informed since the communication endpoints need to be aware
> of the new certificates. This is particularly important when long-lived
> TLS connections are used. In such a case, the a post-handshake
> authentication exchange needs to be triggered. TLS 1.3 provides
> client-to-server post-handshake authentication only. Mutual
> authentication via post-handshake messages is available via the "Exported
> Authenticator" {{?RFC9261}} but requires the application layer protocol
> to carry the payloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and CRLs, less relevant.
After updating certificates, the TLS stack must be notified so that the communication endpoints are aware of the new certificates.
This is especially important for long-lived TLS connections.
In such cases, a post-handshake authentication exchange needs to be triggered.
In TLS 1.3, only client-to-server post-handshake authentication is provided.
Mutual authentication using post-handshake messages is possible through "Exported Authenticator" {{?RFC9261}}, but it requires the application layer protocol to carry the payloads.
```

Reviewer 2: Nit: we have _very_ similar text in the introduction.  Maybe worth trying to avoid duplication.
